(BOLT-1381) Audit the hands-on lab and restructure the lesson directory (#1041)
puppetlabs/bolt: docs/_lab/05-writing-tasks/index.md

In this exercise you will write your first Bolt Tasks for use with Bolt. 

- [How Do Tasks Work?](#how-do-tasks-work)
- [Write Your First Task in Bash](#write-your-first-task-in-bash)
- [Write Your First Task in PowerShell](#write-your-first-task-in-powershell)
- [Write Your First Task in Python](#write-your-first-task-in-python)

## Prerequisites
Complete the following before you start this lesson:

- [Installing Bolt](../01-installing-bolt)
- [Setting Up Test Nodes](../02-acquiring-nodes)
- [Running Commands](../03-running-commands)
- [Running Scripts](../04-running-scripts)

## How Do Tasks Work?

> Tasks are similar to scripts, you can implement them in any language that runs on your target nodes. But tasks are kept in modules and can have metadata. This allows you to reuse and share them more easily. You can upload and download tasks as modules from the [Puppet Forge](https://forge.puppet.com/), run them from GitHub, or use them locally to organize your regularly used commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks are scripts with optional metadata, and can be implemented in any language that runs on your target nodes. Tasks are stored and shared in Puppet modules. By giving your script metadata and including it in a Puppet module, tasks make scripts easy to reuse and share. You can upload and download tasks in modules from the [Puppet Forge](https://forge.puppet.com/), run them from GitHub, or use them locally to organize your regularly used commands.
```

Tasks are stored in the `tasks` directory of a module, a module being a directory with a unique name. You can have several tasks per module, but the `init` task is special and runs by default if you do not specify a task name.

By default tasks take arguments as environment variables prefixed with `PT`. 

## Write Your First Task in Bash

This exercise uses `sh`, but you can use Perl, Python, Lua, or JavaScript or any language that can read environment variables or take content on stdin.

Save the following to `Boltdir/site-modules/exercise5/tasks/init.sh`:

```shell
{% include_relative modules/exercise5/tasks/init.sh -%}
```

> By default, Bolt will search both the `modules` and `site-modules` directories in a `Boltdir` for a matching task name. Typically, any project-specific tasks will be saved to the `site-modules` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Bolt will search both the `modules` and `site-modules` directories in a Bolt project directory for a matching task name. Typically, any project-specific tasks will be saved to the `site-modules` directory.
```

* As with the Bash example above, name parameters so that they're more easily understood by users of the task.
* By default tasks with a `.ps1` extension executed over WinRM use PowerShell standard agrument handling rather than being supplied as prefixed environment variables or via `stdin`. 

## Write Your First Task in Python

When running a task, Bolt assumes that the required runtime is already available on the target nodes. For the following examples to work, Python 2 or 3 must be installed on the target nodes. This task will also work on Windows system with Python 2 or 3 installed.

Save the following as `Boltdir/site-modules/exercise5/tasks/gethost.py`:

```python

> {% include_relative modules/exercise5/tasks/gethost.py -%}

Reviewer 2: Should these be included from the `project` directory to avoid having multiple copies?

Author: Jekyll doesn't allow you to include from higher-level directories, so I'm not sure if it's possible to get around having multiple copies unless the file contents are pasted directly into the markdown file.

```

Run the task using the command `bolt task run <task-name>`.

```shell

> bolt task run exercise5::gethost host=google.com --nodes node1

Reviewer: Does `all` not work here?

Author: The task fails on the Windows node - I think I had changed this to just `node1` prior to creating the `linux` group in the inventory and just missed changing it back.
